# vck190 AIR platform (Vitis 2021.2, Ubuntu 18.04 filesystem) 

At the moment, the build flow for building the AIR platform targeting the vck190 production board involves a few manual steps to generate the final sd image. This process will be streamlined in the near future but for now, it involves the following.

1. Build petalinux-based platform with custom Vivado design (AIE NoC connections, BRAM off NoC, microblaze and AIR data mover). A generated .xsa and .bsp file is copied into a PYNQ compliant platform folder (`pynq/vck190_air`). Be sure the machine used meets software requirements to run vivado/ vitis/ petalinux.

2. Build custom PYNQ/ Ubuntu filesystem which takes in the previously generated platform folder. Build step requires a machine with root/sudo access in order for some mount/fs commands to run. This generates an sd image file (sd_card.img) with two partitions, a primary fat32 boot partition and an ext4 filesystem partition.

3. **(Current workaround)** Copy BOOT.BIN and image.ub onto the primary partition in order to pick up the microblaze reset boot sequence.


## Step 1 - Build petalinux-base platform
This step should be relatively straighforward. Navigate to this current folder (`platforms/xilinx_vck19_air_prod`) and then call make.
```
cd mlir-air/platforms/xilinx_vck190_air_prod
make pynq
```
This should generate the .xsa and .bsp files and copy them to `pynq/vck190_air`. Note that this flow also generates a set of boot files (BOOT.BIN, image.ub) which we will use at the end of the build steps to overwrite those generated by step 2 as a workaround for the flow not passing the correct boot files into the final sd image file. See step 3 for more details.

## Step 2 - Build custom PYNQ/ Ubuntu filesystem 
This step involves cloning another gitenterprise repo but since it's connected to this build flow, we will describe the build step here.

We will clone the custom PYNQ fork, download and copy the base bionic Ubuntu image and then run make. These build instructions are based off the ones described in Jeff's PYNQ fork [here](https://gitenterprise.xilinx.com/XRLabs/mlir-air/blob/main/docs/vck190_building_pynq.md). 

Copy the reference bionic Ubuntu base image (bionic.aarch64.2.6.0_2020_09_21.zip), or from `/group/xrlabs2/pynq/public/v2.6.0_images/bionic.aarch64.2.6.0_2020_09_21.zip` if you have access to local XSJ servers) and unzip it to `sdbuild/output` which you create.
```
git clone https://gitenterprise.xilinx.com/jackl/PYNQ.git --branch versal_acdc-prod
cd PYNQ/sdbuild
mkdir output
cp <unzipped bionic img file> ./output/.
```
Now you can run the make command with references to the PYNQ platform folder generated in Step 1.
```
make PREBUILT=output/bionic.aarch64.*.img BOARDDIR=<path to mlir-air/pynq folder> nocheck_images 
```
You may need to intervene in the beginning and in the middle to type in your password in order to run sudo fs commands.

Now the final sd image file wil be saved to `mlir-air/sdbuild/output/vck190_air-2.6.0.img` which you can image onto an sd card and boot your vck190 production board with.

## Step 3 - **(Current workaround)** Copy BOOT.BIN and image.ub
As mentioned in Step 1, we need to replace the following two boot files on your sd card's primary parition with the one from  `platforms/xilinx_vck190_air_prod/bootgen/BOOT.BIN` and `platforms/xilinx_vck190_air_prod/petalinux/images/linux/image.ub`. This is necessary as a workaround because the correct boot files are not properly generated at the moment. This should be fixed soon. Plugging the sd card into a usb reader on your host machine, you can navigate to the primary parition of the sd card and copy the above files over the generated ones.

-----

<p align="center">Copyright&copy; 2019-2022 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.</p>